# Fault-Detection-Final-Project

The first uses of wind energy go back to the use of rotating turbines in windmills. The first windmills were completely different from the famous Dutch windmills, whose image is recorded in the minds of many of us. The number of blades of these mills reached 12 and the blades were hung from the top of a vertical pole, like the sails of a ship that hang from the mast and the horizontal arm of the mast. Perhaps the general shape of these mills can be compared with the carousels of today's amusement parks, whose main axis is installed in the center of a circle on the ground, and the chambers of the carousel are always at a fixed distance from the ground. This type of design for windmills may have been inspired by the sails of a ship, or the Asian Buddhist prayer wheels, which are turned by the power of the wind.
Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy of the wind into mechanical power and this mechanical power is transferred to the generator through the shaft and finally electrical energy is produced. All components of the turbine (blades, gearbox, generator, etc.) are placed on top of a tall tower in line with the wind. In order to achieve the highest efficiency, these turbines must be placed exactly in the direction of the wind, so horizontal axis turbines must have a system to adjust against the wind, which is called the yaw mechanism. so that the whole nacelle can turn towards the wind. In small turbines, the tail of the fan is responsible for this control. But in the systems connected to the network, the yaw control system is active, which rotates the nacelle towards the wind by wind direction sensors and motors. Wind turbines are made in two types with horizontal axis and vertical axis. Wind turbines work on a simple principle. Wind energy rotates two or three blades that are placed around the rotor of the wind turbine. The rotor is connected to a central shaft, which rotates the generator and generates electricity. Wind turbines are installed on tall towers to get the most energy possible. The height of these towers reaches 30 to 40 meters above the ground. Wind turbines are quite useful in low or high speed winds and in hurricanes.



Undoubtedly, the value of energy production from clean and renewable sources such as wind energy is not hidden from anyone. As mentioned, this is done by wind turbines. In order to achieve proper efficiency in the production of electrical energy, depending on the environment and geographical features of the wind turbine, it is necessary to always meet specific parameters such as the oil temperature of the gearboxes, the speed of the blades, and the injected electric power. To the network, the temperature of the control cabinets, the speed and direction of the wind, etc. are constantly measured and viewed so that they do not exceed their allowed value. If we assume that any of these variables will exceed their specified and allowed value during an accident, then it will cause serious damages and as a result, unexpected shutdowns, which will undoubtedly require heavy costs. One of the ways to prevent these unforeseen shutdowns is to have a complete model of this system in hand, to fix possible system errors by checking various parameters on it and using error detection and identification techniques. Before unforeseen blackouts occur. In this way, the importance of having a model in such systems becomes clear.
